So, guys, now going forward now, let us discuss the rules for declaring and then using the functions
and the code.
So remember that when a compiler compiles the source files, it must first see the declaration of a
function first and then its usage.
So usage means the function call.
So let us call this rule as declare and use timbrell.
So as we discussed that the compiler compiles the source file from top to bottom.
So while passing the file from top to bottom, the compiler must see the declaration of a function first
and then the use of the function.
So let us call it as declare and use thumb rule.
The second point is that compiler do not consider at all the function definition while compiling the
source file.
So here, compiling all the source files means creating the object files out of those source files.
Now what exactly function definition is?
So let us try to understand this point with the help of an example.
Suppose you have a source while a Nazi.
Now you need to tell me whether this source file will compile or not.
So now let us try to understand whether this source file Albie's declare and use Timboon with respect
to the function.
So here you can see that the first line of the source file simply declare the function.
So declaration of the function means the prototype or signature of the function.
Right after that, there is a definition of the function, definition of the function means the actual
implementation of the logic of a function.
Right.
So this denotes the definition of a function and then in the end of the swords, while there is a use
of this function, use of the function means the invocation of this function.
So when the compiler will pass this source file from top to bottom, it will encounter the declaration
of the function first and then it will encounter the use of the function.
So it means that the thumb rule, declare and use is perfectly obeyed.
So this source while will compile without any problem.
Now, let us take another example.
Suppose you have written Puzo's file Adewusi and we don't see so in BNC sorts.
While there is a declaration of the function, then there is a definition of the function and then there
is a use of the function.
So B doxies source file completely obeys the rule.
So be doxies source file perfectly compiles.
In fact, there is no difference between Brazzi source file and this a Doxey source file.
Now coming to the second file, that is a Doxey source.
While in this file the programmer wishes to invoke the function fule.
So what he needs to do, he needs to include the declaration of the function first, followed by the
use of the function.
So you can see that in this source file.
Also, Autum Rule is perfectly obeyed.
Therefore, this Erzsi source file also compiles without any issues.
But one point that you can make out from this air doxy source file is that that compiler do not consider
the function definition while compiling the source file.
So you can see that when the compiler compiles this source file, you can see that in this source file
there is no function definition at all.
And it is perfectly OK to consider a situation where you have written a function in certain sorts file
and you wish to invoke that particular function in another source file.
So will you be writing the definition of this function 10 times in different source?
I think that will be the most stupid thing that we will ever do.
So function definitions, that is the actual implementation of the function must be present in exactly
one and one source file.
And this source file could be any source file.
When the compiler compiles the source file and create an object files, the compiler do not even look
for function definitions at all.
So even if you do not define the function definition in any of the words file, you're all the source.
While we are going to compile perfectly provided that you have obeyed the same rule, the realm of function
definition will kick in during linking phase.
We will discuss this linking in pretty much detail in the coming modules.
Now, coming to one more example here, you can see that I have been to see file and eight or C file
and in this be seesaws file, I have declaration of the function followed by usage of the function,
followed by a definition of the function.
So is the rule obeyed here?
The answer is yes.
So this file compiles.
Quite frankly, all I need to concern is that whether declaration of the function comes before the usage
of the function, if it is so, then the file will compile.
Similarly, in the source file a C file, there is a declaration of the function followed by use of
the function and therefore a doxy file also compiles perfectly.
So the fact that definition of the function is present or not really does not matter.
In case if you are compiling the source file and creating an object files out of them.
So now going forward now, let us take one more example, suppose you are given a high profile idot
edge in which there is a declaration of the function full and you are giving a source file in which
there is a definition of the function full.
Now, this source file that is a Dorsey has include the header file, a dot edge.
So the thumb rule that is declaration followed by a definition is followed.
Right, because when you apply tax substitution.
This has to include a dot edge statement will be replaced by the declaration of the function through.
Now, suppose there is a developer who wants to make use of dysfunction full in his application, so
the developer is writing a separate file called BNC source file.
So far, the developer to correctly make use of the external function for here should obey this thumb
rule.
So he should be careful that he provides the declaration of the function first, followed by usage.
So the thumb rule is followed, right.
So this Bidart seesaws file perfectly compiles.
Now the developer uses another approach, he has include a dot at sorts while followed by the use of
the function.
So this be the source file again perfectly compiles, because when you apply tax substitution, this
has to include a dot.
That statement will be replaced by the declaration of the function fule.
So the thumb rule is still followed.
And the third approach is that that the developer directly make use of the function without mentioning
or providing the declaration of the function.
Right.
And this is something which violates the rule.
So this source file will not compile.
In fact, it will compile, but it will give you a warning and during the linking phase, that warning
will get translated into error.
So the takeaway from this lecture is that that always take care to mention the declaration of the function
before actually using the function.
And the source, while not declaration of the function, can be provided either by explicitly specifying
the declaration of the function or has including the header file, which in turn contains the declaration
of the function.
So either approach you pick the angle should be that declaration of the function must come before the
use of the function in the source file.